# 4. Get data from a production cluster

This assumes that you have set up a differnet cluster that is considered the "production" cluster.

In this exercise, you'll pull data from a topic in the production cluster in to your development cluster.

To do this, you will:

- define a Cluster Link between the production cluster and the development cluster

- create a mirror topic on the development cluster to mirror all data in the production topic in to the mirror topic on the development cluster

Cluster Linking allows you to directly connect clusters together and mirror topics from one cluster to another. Cluster Linking makes it much easier to build multi-datacenter, multi-cluster, and hybrid cloud deployments.



## Set up certificate authority truststore

The production cluster has TLS network encryption enabled. In order to connect to it, the development cluster will need to trust the certificate authority used to create the server certificates in production.

Add the certificate authority truststore to be used by the development cluster:
```
kubectl cp /home/ubuntu/code/cfk-workshop/dev/truststore.p12 kafka-0:/home/appuser/truststore.p12
```

## Create the cluster link

You'll create a cluster link to pull data from the production cluster and in to the development cluster.In order to do that, you'll need to specify the Kafka properties to connect to the production cluster's Kafka listener.

This configuration includes the following:

- bootstrap.servers: The production cluster's Kafka listener endpoint
- sasl.jaas.config, sasl.mechanism, security.protocol: The SASL Plain configuration and credentials to use to connect to the production cluster
- ssl.truststore.location, ssl.truststore.password: The truststore to use in order to trust the production certificate authority

Exec SSH in to the Kafka broker pod and use the CLI tools to create a cluster link:

```
kubectl exec kafka-0 -it bash

# Create configs
cat << EOF > kafka.properties
bootstrap.servers=kafka.cfk-demo.app:9092
sasl.jaas.config=org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username=devuser password=dev-password;
sasl.mechanism=PLAIN
security.protocol=SASL_SSL
ssl.truststore.location=/home/appuser/truststore.p12
ssl.truststore.password=mystorepassword
EOF

# Create cluster link
kafka-cluster-links --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --create --link-name datagen-link --config-file kafka.properties
# List the created cluster links
kafka-cluster-links --list --link-name datagen-link --include-topics --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

## Create the mirror topic

Now that a cluster link is created, you will create a mirror topic on the development cluster.

A cluster link connects a mirror topic to its source topic. Any messages produced to the source topic are mirrored over the cluster link to the mirror topic.Mirror topics are byte-for-byte, offset-preserving asynchronous copies of their source topics. They are read-only; you can consume them the same as any other topic, but you cannot produce into them.

```
# Create a mirror topic
kafka-topics --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --create --topic prod-quotes --link-name datagen-link --mirror-topic prod-quotes
# List the created cluster links, see mirrored topics list
kafka-cluster-links --list --link-name datagen-link --include-topics --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

## Review the mirror topic

Log in to Control Center. You had set up a connection to Control Center in the prior exercise. Use the same URL.

Once logged in, navigate to the topic section. You should see the "prod-quotes" topic.

## Explore the Cluster Linking CLI

See all created cluster links:

```
kubectl exec kafka-0 -it bash
kafka-cluster-links --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

List all mirror topics for a cluster link:

```
kubectl exec kafka-0 -it bash
kafka-cluster-links --list --link-name datagen-link --include-topics --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

View the status of the mirror topic prod-quotes:

```
kubectl exec kafka-0 -it bash
kafka-mirrors --link-name datagen-link --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --describe prod-quotes
```

Promote  the cluster link - to be a real topic, where it can be written and managed outside the cluster link:

```
kafka-mirrors --promote --topics prod-quotes --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
> What is the max lag (in records) allowed to promote a mirror topic?     1000
> What is the max lag (in milliseconds) allowed to promote a mirror topic?        10000000
```

Once all mirror topics are promoted, you can delete the cluster link:

```
kafka-cluster-links --delete --link-name datagen-link --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

You can also now delete the topic.

## Learn more

Confluent Cluster Linking: https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/multi-dc-deployments/cluster-linking/index.html


## Appendix: Create truststore

keytool -import -trustcacerts -noprompt \
  -alias rootCA \
  -file $TUTORIAL_HOME/certs/cacerts.pem \
  -keystore $TUTORIAL_HOME/client/client.truststore.p12 \
  -deststorepass mystorepassword \
  -deststoretype pkcs12

keytool -import -trustcacerts -noprompt \
  -alias rootCA \
  -file $TUTORIAL_HOME/certs/ca.pem \
  -keystore $TUTORIAL_HOME/client/client.truststore.p12 \
  -deststorepass mystorepassword \
  -deststoretype pkcs12