# 6. Deploy with ArgoCD and GitOps

In this exercise you will set up ArgoCD, and then deploy a Confluent for Kubernetes cluster through Github and ArgoCD.

Argo CD follows the GitOps pattern of using Git repositories as the source of truth for defining the desired application state. 

Argo CD automates the deployment of the desired application states in the specified target environments. Application deployments can track updates to branches, tags, or pinned to a specific version of manifests at a Git commit.

## Set up ArgoCD on your minikube environment

First, create a namespace where you will install ArgoCD.

```
kubectl create namespace argocd
```

Second, apply this install script:

```
kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/stable/manifests/install.yaml
```

This command will complete quickly, but pods will still be spinning up on the back end. These need to be in a running state before you can move forward. Use the watch command to ensure the pods are running and ready.

```
watch kubectl get pods -n argocd
```

Since this is dev environment, use port-forward to expose a port to the service, and forward it to localhost.

```
kubectl port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 svc/argocd-server -n argocd 8080:443
```

You can now access the ArgoCD app at http://localhost:8080.

In this UI, you will not be able to log in yet. ArgoCD generates a custom password for every deploy. The following command will list the pods and format the output to provide just the line you want. It will have the format argocd-server-<number>-<number>.

```
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```

To log in to the ArgoCD UI, the default username is `admin` and the default password is the output of the above command.

Log in through the Argo CLI. You will need to accept the server certificate error.

```
argocd login localhost:8080
```

Now you'll add the target Kubernetes cluster for ArgoCD to deploy to. This will be the minikube cluster you are on.

Get the Kubernetes contexts:

```
kubectl config get-contexts -o name
minikube
```

Add this context as the target

```
argocd cluster add minikube
```

## Deploy CFK through ArgoCD

Create a namespace for the CFK through ArgoCD gitops deployment.

```
kubectl create ns gitops-confluent
```

Create a new application, using the ArgoCD UI.

Log in with `admin` username and the password you got from this command:

```
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```

Click on "New App" in the top left of the UI screen.

Set the application name - for example cfk-minikube.

Select the `default` project.

Keep sync mode as `Manual`.

Set the Github repo URL - `https://github.com/confluentinc/cfk-workshop.git`

Set the path to the `gitops-dev` directory.

Select your target minikube cluster - `https://kubernetes.default.svc`.

Set the target namespace to the one you just created - `gitops-confluent`.

Click "Create".

In the UI, click on the `cfk-minikube` application tile.

From the top menu, click on `SYNC` button. This will sync the declarative spec files in https://github.com/confluentinc/cfk-workshop/tree/main/gitops-dev with the Kubernetes cluster.

When this is successful, you should see:

```
kubectl get pods -n gitops-confluent
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
confluent-operator-c96b8bfff-t7g6x   1/1     Running   0          68m
connect-0                            1/1     Running   0          30m
controlcenter-0                      1/1     Running   0          30m
datagen-quotes-0                     1/1     Running   0          33m
kafka-0                              1/1     Running   1          32m
ksqldb-0                             1/1     Running   0          30m
schemaregistry-0                     1/1     Running   0          30m
zookeeper-0                          1/1     Running   0          33m
```